h1. play-mustache

This module allows you to define logic-less template snippets that can be used server-side in your "Play!":http://playframework.org views as well as client-side in your JavaScript. 

The template snippets use "Mustache":http://mustache.github.com, which is a logic-less template language. For a complete reference of the language see the "official manual":http://mustache.github.com/mustache.5.html.

h2. Installation

h3. Install the module

Install the Mustache module from the modules repository:

bc. play install mustache

h3. Enable the module

After installing the module, add the following to your **application.conf**:

bc. # The Mustache module
module.mustache=${play.path}/modules/mustache

h2. Usage

h3. Scripts Tag

The first step is to put the **mustache.scripts** tag somewhere in your document. This tag outputs the JavaScript implementation of Mustache and a mechanism to compile your templates using JavaScript. 

bc. <html>
	<head>
		<title>#{get 'title' /}</title>
        <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8">
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="screen" href="@{'/public/stylesheets/main.css'}">
        <link rel="shortcut icon" type="image/png" href="@{'/public/images/favicon.png'}">
        #{mustache.scripts /}
    </head>
    <body>
        #{doLayout /}
    </body>
</html> 

h3. Inline Template Snippets

You can define Mustache templates inline in your views using the **mustache.template** tag:

bc. #{mustache.template 'task_item'}
	<li class="task" id="task_{{id}}">
		<span class="name">Task {{id}}</span>
		<span class="details">{{details}}</span>
		<span class="priority">{{priority}}</span>
	</li>
#{/mustache.template}
	
You can then use the template within your view using the **mustache.print** tag:

bc. <ul id="tasks">
#{list tasks, as: 'task'}
	#{mustache.print 'task_item', context:task /}
#{/list}
</ul>
	
And you can use the template within your JavaScript using the **PlayMustache.to_html** method:

bc. var data = {
	name: 'Task 34',
	details: 'Finish the project',
	priority: 'High'
}
var html = PlayMustache.to_html("task_item", data);
$('#tasks').append($(html));

h3. External Template Snippets

If you don't want to specify your snippet inline, you can move it into an external file. By default the module will look in **app/views/mustaches** for template files, but you can configure this path by specifying **mustache.dir** in your **application.conf**.

To reference an external snippet, just use the relative filename as the template name. For example, if your file is called **app/views/mustaches/my_template.html** then you would use it server-side like this:

bc. #{mustache.print 'my_template.html', context:data /}

And client-side like this:

bc. PlayMustache.to_html('my_template.html', data);
	
